feat: backup & recovery documentation (#8)
toolsforhumanity/docs: world-app/backup/components.mdx

# Backup Service

The Backup Service is a [Nethermind](https://www.nethermind.io/)-hosted REST service. Tools for Humanity has no production access; the service holds ciphertext and metadata only. Its open source repository is [`backup-service`](https://github.com/worldcoin/backup-service).

## Role and guarantees

The service:

- Stores the <SealedBackup /> and <BackupMetadata />.
- Authenticates clients via per-operation challenges signed by the relevant factor.
- Enforces state transitions on sync via the manifest hash (see [Structure & Sync](/world-app/backup/structure-and-sync#state-transitions)).
- Maps factor public identifiers back to `backup_id` so a recovering client can locate its backup from a single Main Factor.

It does **not**:

- Hold the <SealedBackup />'s decryption key, any <FactorSecret />, or any factor private key.
- Inspect the contents of the <SealedBackup />.
- Authenticate users beyond verifying signatures and tokens — there is no concept of a Backup Service user account.

## Storage layout

- **S3** — <SealedBackup /> blobs and <BackupMetadata /> JSON, keyed by `backup_id`.

> - **DynamoDB** — A `FactorLookup` table mapping `{scope}#{type}#{factor_value}` (e.g. `MAIN#PASSKEY#<credential_id>`) back to `backup_id`. This is a lookup utility — the source of truth for *which factors authorize a backup* is the metadata in S3.

Reviewer: I think the format has changed a bit? Anyway we might be better off being sligtly less descriptive 
```suggestion
- **DynamoDB** — A `FactorLookup` table using a composite primary key combining the scope (MAIN/SYNC) and a factor identifier (credential ID for passkey, iss+sub for OIDC, public key for EC keypair) mapping back to `backup_id`. This is a lookup utility — the source of truth for *which factors authorize a backup* is the metadata in S3.
```

> - **Redis** — Ephemeral state: JWE-encrypted challenge tokens (single-use, ~5 min TTL), short-lived per-`backup_id` locks during create/sync, and post-recovery `sync_factor_token`s used to register a new <SyncFactor /> without re-prompting a Main Factor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Redis** — Ephemeral state: used-challenge hashes for replay protection (15 min TTL), hashed OIDC nonces (1 year TTL), short-lived per-`backup_id` locks during create/sync, and post-recovery `sync_factor_token`s used to register a new <SyncFactor /> without re-prompting a Main Factor.
```

The list of endpoints, request shapes, and the `ChallengeContext` enum live in [`backup-service/src/routes`](https://github.com/worldcoin/backup-service/tree/main/src/routes); the OpenAPI spec is served at `/docs` on each environment.

## Authorization

Three factor types are recognized:

| Factor type | Verification | Allowed scope |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Passkey | WebAuthn assertion (COSE `ES256`) verified via `webauthn-rs` | Main only |

> | OIDC account | OIDC token signature + claim verification (nonce = SHA256(ephemeral session pubkey)) | Main only |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| OIDC account | OIDC token signature + claim verification ([nonce = SHA256(ephemeral session pubkey)](https://docs.turnkey.com/authentication/social-logins#nonce-restrictions-in-oidc-tokens)) | Main only |
```
